Hi, Movie Recaps here. Today I
will show you a drama, horror,
mystery film from 2017, titled Flatliners.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The movie begins with Courtney Holmes driving
her car together with her sister Tessa. The girls
are having a relaxing time together, but tragedy
occurs when Courtney gets distracted by her phone
and crashes the car against the road railing,
causing it to fall into the river. Nine years
later, Courtney is a medical student doing her
rounds at the hospital. When checking on a patient
that almost died earlier that day, Courtney asks
her if she remembered anything from the time
her heart stopped, making the patient ask her in
return if she's lost someone. Ray and Marlo, who
are medical students too, are also working at the
hospital and showing some sort of rivalry while
looking after a patient. Later in the evening,
Courtney goes to the library to do some research
about the afterlife. Her reading is interrupted
when she hears her classmate Sophia Manning crying
at a table nearby. Courtney decides to go check on
her and learns Sophia is under a lot of stress and
pressure from her mom and how difficult medical
school is. They leave the library together,
and Courtney invites her to share a little
side project she's working on, to which Sophia
answers with a maybe. The next day, Courtney,
Sophia, Marlo, Ray, and their friend Jamie
are in class getting scolded by their teacher for
not answering quickly and well enough. Afterward,
Sophia works at a doctor's event with Jamie,
who doesn't need it because he's trust-funded
but goes anyway to chase after a caterer. Sophia
sends a message to her mother to show her where
she is and admits her mother has moved in
with her just to keep tabs on her daughter.
After doing more rounds in the hospital, Courtney
invites Jamie to have fun with her later at the
hospital's basement, which Jamie misunderstands
as innuendo. When he accepts, she asks him to
take the service elevator because there are no
cameras there. Later at night, both Sophia and
Jamie join Courtney at the hospital's basement
as she requested, there's a whole functional
clinic there in case of emergencies. Courtney
explains to them what her project is about:
she's been searching for the region of the brain
that is responsible for near-death experiences,
so she wants to map the process the same way they
map a seizure. In order to do that, she wants her
friends to stop her heart while she's in the
image scanner, then bring her back after one
minute. Sophia doesn't want anything to do with
it, but Jamie accepts. He stops Courtney's heart
with a combination of drugs and the defibrillator,
effectively killing her. While Sophia and Jamie
keep an eye on the scanner and make sure it's
recording, Courtney has an out-of-body experience.
She sees everyone inside the hospital and then
the roof before going around the whole city.
When the minute passes, Sophia and Jamie start
the resuscitating process, but they aren't able
to bring her back. Sophia pages Ray asking for
help, and he rushes out of his office when he sees
the message, so Marlo sees him leave. Courtney
continues her journey, now she sees the room
she is in explode before appearing at a bridge
filled with glowing lights. This vision ends,
however, when her friends finally manage to bring
her back with the help of Ray's smart guidance.
As Sophia calls Courtney crazy, Marlo arrives and
demands to know what's going on. Moments later,
the five of them go to Courtney's place, where she
tells them what the experience was like; she calls
it pure energy. Together they watch the scanner
recordings and notice bolts of lighting appearing
on different areas of the brain. Ray decides
to leave because he thinks this idea was crazy,
and Courtney spends ten minutes on the balcony,
just watching the city. When Marlo checks on her,
Courtney says she wants to bake. The next morning,
all the bread Courtney baked is brought to class.
Marlo says she made six loaves when she remembered
her grandmother's recipe, she also says Courtney
ran twelve miles. When their teacher starts going
through the cases, Courtney has the right answers
for all of them as soon as Sophia finishes
describe them, she even uses rare knowledge
she read in a book a couple of years ago. In
the evening, when the five of them go to a bar,
Courtney plays the piano after twelve years of
not touching one. Her friends are impressed by
the way she can access everything she's ever
learned, calling it rewiring of the brain. Ray
still thinks these experiments are a bad idea, but
Jamie is excited and decides to go next. Later at
her apartment, Courtney thinks she hears a noise
in the shower, so she moves the curtains to check.
There's nothing there, so she leaves the bathroom
after making sure the curtains are left open,
but returns when she hears the noise again. She
finds one of the curtains has fallen in the tub,
which is now full of water, and she's startled
by a face suddenly appearing in it. Screaming,
she falls to the floor, only to discover that she
imagined the whole thing when she stands up again
and sees the curtains and bathtub in the same
condition she left them in. The group, including
a still skeptical Ray, goes ahead and helps Jamie
flatline next. His vision puts him on a bike on
the highway; the ride is exciting and enjoyable,
especially when a blonde woman named Alicia
appears behind him on the bike. But eventually
they make it to a dark neighborhood where Alicia
disappears as she whispers his name and Jamie
is brought back to life by his friends. After
confirming he's fine, the group goes to Courtney's
place to drink and party, even accepting to break
one of the apartment's walls when Courtney offers
the idea. She and Jamie seem to be on the same
wavelength, they share a kiss and have a snow
fight in their underwear when it starts to hail.
Ray still isn't interested in flatlining, but
Marlo decides she'll be going next. While talking
about their experiences, Courtney asks Jamie if he
saw anything disturbing, to which he answers no.
The next day at the hospital, Jamie makes a
series of decisions that saves patients' lives.
Marlo points out the differences between him
and Courtney: while she's focused on the past
bringing back old information, Jamie is focused
on the present, using his intuition; and Marlo
can't see what those two things have in common.
After everyone goes back to work, Jamie sees
Alicia standing in the middle of the street, but
she's gone after he's distracted by a nurse, who
Jamie thought had asked about an abortion. Later
that night, Sophia tries to leave her apartment,
but her mother doesn't let her, making her stay
and study with her. The group goes on without her
and this time, it's Marlo who flatlines. She even
asks to stay out for three minutes instead of one
like the others. Her visions take her through all
her life achievements before showing her the word
"murderer" and revisiting the memory of a patient
called Cyrus, whom she couldn't save. His body
appears in front of her at the bottom of a creepy
pool, but before she can come any closer to it,
she's brought back to life. The group takes Marlo
to the roof so she can grab some air and they're
surprised to see Sophia suddenly showing
up, demanding to go next. Ray disapproves,
but he's told to shut up by the others because
he's already as deep in this as they are.
Courtney and Marlo accept to help Sophia, but she
can't stay too long because the cleaning crew will
be arriving soon. Sophia flatlines and her visions
show her teenage days. Her mother was constantly
pressuring her to be a good student, causing
Sophia to get jealous of her classmate Irina
when she was doing better than her at school.
She ruined Irina's life by hacking her phone and
sending out her intimate photographs. Sophia's
experience is suddenly cut short, however,
when the cleaning crew arrives at the building
and her friends are forced to bring her back.
Jamie goes out and pulls the fire alarm to
distract the employees while the group escapes
in a car, almost getting caught by the security
guards. Their worries quickly disappear as Marlo
drives out of there at a very high speed and
they decide to join a party, where they have
fun dancing and drinking. Courtney leaves the
dance floor when she thinks she sees Tessa in
the crowd and follows the girl to the parking
lot, where she starts having a hallucination.
The entire place suddenly becomes empty except
for her old destroyed car in front of her;
when she comes closer to look inside,
she finds Tessa's body floating in water.
Her hand suddenly comes up and startles Courtney,
bringing her back to reality. Upset, she decides
to leave the party. Meanwhile, Sophia is euphoric
thanks to her flatlining experience, so she takes
Jamie back to her apartment and makes love to him.
Her mother can hear them and tries to make them
stop, but the pair doesn't leave the room until
they're done. After Jamie leaves the apartment,
Sophia's mom tries to scold her for bringing a man
over to her place, but Sophia finally stands up to
her and tells her she's moving out. Marlo and Ray
also leave the party together. When they make it
to Marlo's house, she convinces him to come inside
by saying she has something important to tell him.
They share a drink while Marlo confesses
Cyrus' death was her fault because she made
a mistake while choosing his treatment, she
also admits being scared because she saw him
during her flatlining. Ray tells her she's a good
person and that everything's going to be fine,
then he kisses her and they make love. A couple
of hours later, Courtney goes to the bridge where
she lost her sister and remembers the accident,
desperately crying with guilt. Jamie returns to
his boathouse and has a vision as well - first
he thinks he sees Alicia crying on his bed, then
he hears a baby crying under his furniture. He
finds a baby blanket as Alicia approaches him from
behind, but she disappears when his phone rings.
It's Courtney, who is calling to tell him about
her visions. Jamie tells her to stay home so he
can go check on her. Courtney enters her apartment
and hears music coming from the radio. After
turning it off, she records a video on her phone,
apologizing and admitting the real reason behind
her experiments was to see her sister again,
not scientific discovery. A light is suddenly on
in her room and the radio starts playing again,
Courtney goes to investigate and finds Tessa
writing at a desk, looking dreadful. The ghost
starts chasing Courtney around the apartment and
also appears outside when Courtney climbs out
of the window and onto the fire escape. When she
tries to re-enter the building through a different
window, Tessa pushes her over the railing, killing
her. Her friends are told the news the next day
by their teacher. Marlo thinks they need to talk
about the visions they're having, but Jamie points
out the priority is to destroy all evidence of
their experiments or they'll be found when the
school investigates Courtney's death. Jamie
says he'll break into Courtney's apartment to
get anything incriminating and tells the others
to get rid of their notes. Sophia tells Ray they
should've listened to him, and Jamie tells him he
can walk away, but Ray wants to stick with them.
When night falls, Marlo gets a call from Jamie
while working at the hospital. He tells her he
and Ray found Courtney's computer and notes but
not her phone, which should be in the morgue,
so Marlo should retrieve it since she has
access to it. Marlo goes to the morgue and
quickly finds the phone in the file cabinet
by making it ring with a call; she's about to
leave when she notices Courtney's name on the body
list. She decides to take it out and look at it,
which makes her rather upset. After putting the
body back, Marlo starts having a vision: she sees
the word "murderer" painted on the refrigerated
unit and gets a call from Courtney's phone;
she picks it up and hears a voice calling
her name right before the power goes off.
Marlo turns on the flashlight on her phone
and sees all the doors from the unit are open,
she's also jumped on by Cyrus's body before the
shock snaps her back into reality. Jamie is having
issues as well: his shower suddenly runs out of
water, and his radio starts playing baby music,
he only manages to stop it after disconnecting it
with a knife. Then he hears a voice whispering his
name and a woman crying before Alicia appears
in front of him, Jamie rushes out of the boat
when a hand touches his shoulder. However, Alicia
is waiting for him outside and when he sees her,
he falls into the water. He swims to the dock
and screams when a figure stabs his hand. The
group gets together to watch Courtney's recording
and after hearing her talk to Tessa, Marlo comes
to the conclusion their sins are coming back
to haunt them. Jaime decides everyone should
tell the truth, and he starts by talking about
Alicia. He slept with her and got her pregnant but
was willing to pay for the abortion, when the day
came, though, he wasn't capable of doing it so he
drove away and left her to fend for herself. She
was the one that stabbed him last night, except
it couldn't have really been her because she's
still alive and living somewhere else. Sophia
confesses what she did to Irina in high school,
but Marlo doesn't say anything about Cyrus.
They think there's some being, perhaps demonic,
that is using their guilt to go after them.
Sometime later, during a class, Sophia has a
vision too: she thinks she's getting insulting
text messages like Irina used to get and sees
a video of her sleeping with Jamie appearing
on the computer screen. Unsettled, she leaves
the room and makes it to the hallway, where
she hears a girl's laughter while an apparition
walks behind her. Sophia enters the elevator and
notices the ceiling is missing, but she can't
get out because the doors have already closed.
The elevator starts going up and suddenly stops at
an old abandoned classroom where Irina shows up,
startling Sophia back into reality. Ray visits
Marlo at her house to tell her he's discovered
she changed Cyrus' autopsy report to make his
death look like an accident instead of a mistake
and asks her to come clean to the dean. Marlo
refuses to do it because it'll destroy her career,
Ray tells her that then she shouldn't be a doctor.
Meanwhile, Sophia asks Jamie to go with her to see
Irina. She confesses to her that she was the one
that sent out her pictures and apologizes for her
actions, Irina accepts to forgive her. Jamie is
inspired by this and, after calling Marlo to tell
her about this idea possibly saving them, he goes
to see Alicia to apologize as well. He discovers
she never got the abortion and she's been raising
their son alone, so he admits having been a coward
and tells he wants to help from now on. Later at
night, Marlo is at her house reading about the
afterlife when she starts having a vision again.
She finds herself in the bottom of the dark, empty
pool with Cyru's body in front of her, but she
wakes up when she touches it. It's already morning
when she leaves the house in her car, crying as
she drives. Another hallucination begins on the
way, a pair of hands put a plastic bag around her
head, making it hard to breathe and causing her to
crash. Ray gets a message from Marlo saying she
needs to stop all this, so he calls Sophia and
Jamie to help him look for her. They find her
in the hospital's basement rooms, flatlining,
so they try to bring her back while she has her
visions. Marlo finds herself in the pool again and
this time, she stays by Cyrus' side and apologizes
to him, but he wakes up and chokes her. Then she
appears on a stretcher that Cyrus pushes into an
empty room. Marlo gets off the stretcher only to
be pushed around before being grabbed by the head
and put into a tub filled with water to drown.
As Ray tells her he needs her to come back to him,
Marlo manages to get out of the water but starts
being sucked in by a storm. Suddenly, Courtney
appears in front of her and tells her she needs
to forgive herself just as Ray finally brings
her back to life. A couple of days later, Marlo
accepts Courtney was right and goes to see the
dean to accept responsibility for what she did,
the dean puts her on probation. Afterward, she
and Ray throw Courtney's computer into the river
so nobody tries the experiment again. The movie
ends with the group having a drink at a bar and
realizing the guy at the piano is playing the same
song Courtney did, so they drink a toast to her.